Hello and welcome back to the course in Parbat today I've got a very interesting section.
We're starting off in the section on custom visuals and power.
This a unique feature of power VI which you will probably not find in other tools.
So let's go ahead and first get the data set as a whole to get the data set when to go to VW supersized
dot com slash I at one word.
And if you scroll down here to Section 6 leveraging custom visuals then you've got the visual visualization
here euro debt crisis so go ahead and download that.
And today's data set is as it says here the real data relating to the European debt crisis as at 2011.
So as you remember Europe had that whole situation where a lot of countries owed the money and they
were on the verge of bankruptcy and things like that.
That was all back starting from 2008 I guess.
Two thousand eleven and onwards.
But this data set is as at 2011.
So let's have a look at the data.
Once you've downloaded it you'll see that we've got it's simple datasets got four columns on the so
nothing is too major.
Here we've got the creditors of the company or the country that lent lent money to another country.
And then here we've got the country that the money was lent to the amount this amount is in.
You won't believe it.
Billions of dollars.
That's right.
Not just millions of dollars this is billions of dollars so Japan as at that snapshot in 2011 I think
goes like October 2011 at that point in time.
Japan had lent the United States a total of seven hundred seven hundred ninety six billion dollars and
this risk level determines the risk of the debtor.
So the the country that all that owes the money to the United States this risk is associated with that
country so the United States you can see it's always stable meaning it's it's there's like the risk
is insignificant then you've got some countries that have high risk like Italy or had high risk at the
time.
Portugal you've got medium risk Spain and there's a couple of low risk like France.
I think France is actually the only one with low risk here.
So that's some on the roads lent or that was owed.
And so this is a balance.
So you'll notice that you won't find in this table the reverse situation where United States lend money
to Japan because if that had happened then this is a summary of those so for instance there were cases
where Germany lent money to Italy lend money Germany Germany might lend money to Italy.
And then the result of that too is actually if you add the two up then the amount is just this 111 billion
that Italy lent to Germany.
So this is the balance of the both ways that the lending was happening.
So here we only have 46 rows.
But as you can imagine the numbers here are quite large and billions of dollars and 40 46 or minus ahead
of 45 rows is enough to describe that whole situation that was going on which was pretty serious so
that's what we're going to be working with as close that we don't need to save it and bring a power
be-I and connected data set.
All right.
So it is quite simple get data since you file this time to find where you save the file your debt crisis.
There you go.
And just look ok.
Go to second.
There you go.
So the file is loaded and we can from here just proceed with the election and we'll continue in the
next tutorial.
But what I wanted to shoot today was the original version of the resolution.
Are we going to be recreating what we won't be recreating it per se so be different what we create.
But here you go so if you search for New York Times and then just look for the overview of the euro
crisis.
So just search for that in Google and then just type in New York Times Well you'll get this is Alsation.
And so this is a very advanced and we won't be creating something as like as sophisticated as this will
be simpler because you can see here you can jump around and you know it shows different parts of the
weasel's ocean.
And as you can imagine this would have taken quite a lot of time to create this.
Looks like you know maybe a hand-drawn resolution or specific resolution so this is not a generic thing
and would have taken quite a lot of time to create this.
What is going to be much quicker and easier and you'll see how quickly it will tear apart we are you
can create something not 100 percent as good as this but about 80 percent as good as this and still
something that tells the story and that's how it's going to be our focus to get that quick going and
show that power by you can very quickly create things that drive insights and and always and if you
know if you have the time you can sit down and create something like this and you're probably in a different
tool.
But at the same time you've got that lever.
So check out this page.
Maybe if you like before we get started and learn a bit about well you can learn here a bit about what
was going on and who owed money to who.
And you can kind of see the big picture here right away.
So then when we're working with the data set already be familiar with the whole geo political situation
or financial and economical situation.
I was going on.
All right so that's it for today and of course here.
Until then happy analyzing.